Come again? A multi-site reexamination of the ‘native advantage’  
in adverse listening conditions

================
Corresponding author:  
Joseph V. Casillas (<joseph.casillas@rutgers.edu>)  
  
Contributing authors:  
Kyle Parrish, Juan José Garrido Pozú, Laura Fernández Arroyo,  
Gabriela Constantin-Dureci, Jiawei Shao, Iván Andreu Rascón,  
Isabelle Chang, Katherine Taveras, Melany Subina

# Study to be replicated and justification

Adverse listening conditions, such as a noisy room, can make
understanding speech difficult. This occurs because less intense regions
of the speech signal can be masked and rendered unintelligible by
extraneous noise in the acoustic environment (Helfer & Wilber, 1990). As
a result, speech perception in noise is more difficult due to decreased
acoustic and linguistic cues available to the listener and becomes
increasingly more difficult as the signal to noise ratio (SNR)
decreases. This is particularly true when listening in one’s non-native
language (referred to in the literature as the ‘native advantage’).
Three decades of research on speech perception in adverse conditions
consistently shows that listening in background noise poses more
difficulties for bilinguals in their L2 than for monolinguals (See
Scharenborg & Os, 2019 for an overview). Furthermore, some studies show
that the ‘native advantage’ persists even when one is highly proficient
in the L2 and learns it at an early age (See Mayo, Florentine, & Buus,
1997; Meador, Flege, & Mackay, 2000; Rogers, Lister, Febo, Besing, &
Abrams, 2006, among others), including simultaneous bilinguals with two
L1’s (Mayo et al., 1997; Shi, 2010).

According to Scharenborg & Os (2019), the ‘native advantage’ results
from ‘imperfect knowledge’ of the L2. This explanation seems plausible
for late learners, but cannot explain the apparent difficulties of early
sequential and simultaneous bilinguals that are proficient in both
languages. A recent study by Reetzke, Lam, Xie, Sheng, & Chandrasekaran
(2016) finds that simultaneous bilingual children exhibit comparable
difficulties perceiving speech in noise as age-matched monolingual
peers. Thus, contrary to initial findings, the ‘native advantage’ cited
in the literature may also include individuals with multiple native
languages.

What, then, can explain the simultaneous and early bilinguals’
difficulties cited in the early studies? One possibility is type-I
error. In other words, the early studies on bilingual speech perception
in noise may present false-positive results. Type-I errors are common in
studies with low power; studies with small sample sizes are virtually
always underpowered. The investigations in question include samples
ranging from 3 to 18 participants per group. We believe that the current
assessment of the ‘native advantage’ is incomplete with regard to
simultaneous and early bilingual adults. Thus, the question we intend to
address with our replication is the following: Do simultaneous and early
sequential bilingual adults have more difficulty perceiving speech in
noise than monolinguals? We propose a multi-site replication of Reetzke
et al. (2016).

# Type of replication

We will complete a close replication of the Reetzke et al. (2016) study,
with several minor differences. The theoretical/conceptual framework is
the same. Our research questions/hypotheses also parallel those of
Reetzke et al. (2016), with slight differences due to the population of
interest. The research design is the same, as are the procedures we will
use for presenting stimuli and coding the listening task. We will use
the same stimuli, if possible, or recreate them using similar equipment.
The participants’ profile is slightly different with regard to the
Reetzke et al. (2016) study. Specifically, we are interested in adult
bilinguals, both simultaneous and early sequential. We will also employ
most of the same analytic strategies, though we will use a Bayesian
framework. The primary differences between our study and that of Reetzke
et al. (2016) deal with the population of interest and the modality of
the stimuli, which we describe in the following section.

# Variable modification

With regard to variable modification, our study will differ from that of
Reetzke et al. (2016) in two ways. First, we will recruit a participant
sample of adult Spanish-English bilinguals, as opposed to
Spanish-English simultaneous bilingual children. The rationale for
expanding the participant pool to adults is straightforward. We want to
test the ‘native advantage’ attested in the literature with a comparable
population (adults) and an adequate sample size. Thus far, the only
studies showing a monolingual advantage with regard to
simultaneous/early bilinguals have included small samples of adults.
Thus, we believe this decision more closely aligns our study with the
previous investigations, which have focused on bilinguals at or near the
end state of their language development (e.g., Mayo et al., 1997; Meador
et al., 2000; Rogers et al., 2006, among others). In the same vein, we
will extend the findings from Reetzke et al. (2016) to include early
sequential bilinguals. In line with the previous research, we
operationalize early bilinguals as individuals that have been exposed to
their L2 at or before the age of 6. Importantly, we will still include
simultaneous bilinguals as part of our sample. Second, we will omit one
of the conditions used in Reetzke et al. (2016), the audio-visual
condition. Previous research on speech perception in noise finds that
listening when audio and visual information are both available results
in higher accuracy than when only auditory information is presented. Our
study is concerned with speech perception in noise in the most difficult
listening conditions, thus we believe this condition would be redundant
in our study.

In sum, our replication of Reetzke et al. (2016) includes two subtle
modifications. Our *group* factor focuses on adults and includes three
levels rather than two (monolingual control, simultaneous bilingual,
early sequential bilingual) and we do not include a *modality* factor
(only auditory stimuli).

# Design and availability of materials

The original materials from Reetzke et al. (2016) are not publicly
available. We are in contact with the corresponding author in order to
obtain the original materials. At the time of writing this proposal, the
corresponding author is looking for the sound files. In the case that we
are not able to obtain the original materials, we will recreate them
using professional recording equipment. The process of recreating the
stimuli is well-documented in the manuscript and appears to be
straightforward.

# Analysis

## Statistical analyses

Our primary analysis will mirror that of the original study.
Specifically, the outcome variable of Reetzke et al. (2016) was the
number of correct responses from a speech perception in noise task.
Participants heard Basic English Lexicon (BEL) sentences (e.g., “The hot
sun warmed the ground”) with two masker types (2-speaker babble and pink
noise) at SNRs of -16, -12, -8, -4, -2, and 0. The data were analyzed
using mixed effects logistic regression models (correct responses coded
as ‘1’) with masker-type and signal to noise ratio as fixed effects
(signal to noise was a continuous variable). We will use the same
analytic strategy as Reetzke et al. (2016) under a Bayesian framework.

## Sample size

The Reetzke et al. (2016) study included two groups of participants,
monolinguals (n = 12) and simultaneous bilinguals (n = 12). This sample
size parallels those of the most closely related investigations (Mayo et
al., 1997; Meador et al., 2000; Rogers et al., 2006). In order to
approximate the minimum sample size for our study, we estimated the
effect size from the Rogers et al. (2006) study in the most difficult
listening condition (SNR = -6). This study was selected because the
analytic strategy more closely resembles that of Reetzke et al. (2016).
We calculated Cohen’s D to be 1.38 (CI: 0.54, 2.22). Given the wide CI,
we used the lower-bound of this estimate to approximate a conservative
sample size of approximately 55 participants per group at 80% power.

# Other differences

Our intention is that this replication be a large(r) scale, multi-site
replication, including research teams from across the United States.
Each team would collect data independently, following the same
procedures detailed in a forthcoming pre-registration. The
aforementioned statistical analysis would include the pooled sample from
all labs. Additionally, we will investigate the ‘native advantage’
effect using Bayesian meta-analytic techniques. The corresponding author
of the present proposal has previous experience managing multi-site
collaborations (See <https://many-speech-analyses.github.io> for an
example). At this time, three additional research teams have expressed
interest in participating.

# Impact

The general claim resulting from the speech perception in noise research
is that bilingual individuals, in comparison with monolinguals, have
more difficulties with speech perception when the acoustic environment
includes extraneous noise, which, in our estimation, is nearly all the
time. The extant literature sheds doubt on this claim, particularly
regarding simultaneous and early sequential bilinguals. Thus, currently
there is a discourse supporting a bilingual disadvantage that may not be
warranted. We believe that a large-scale replication of Reetzke et al.
(2016) can shed light on the topic, furthering our knowledge of both
bilingualism and speech perception in noise.

# References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent"
line-spacing="2">

<div id="ref-helfer_1990" class="csl-entry">

Helfer, K. S., & Wilber, L. A. (1990). Hearing loss, aging, and speech
perception in reverberation and noise. *Journal of Speech, Language, and
Hearing Research*, *33*(1), 149–155.
<https://doi.org/10.1044/jshr.3301.149>

</div>

<div id="ref-mayo_1997" class="csl-entry">

Mayo, L. H., Florentine, M., & Buus, S. (1997). Age of second-language
acquisition and perception of speech in noise. *Journal of Speech,
Language, and Hearing Research*, *40*(3), 686–693.
<https://doi.org/10.1044/jslhr.4003.686>

</div>

<div id="ref-meador_flege_mackay_2000" class="csl-entry">

Meador, D., Flege, J. E., & Mackay, I. R. A. (2000). Factors affecting
the recognition of words in a second language. *Bilingualism: Language
and Cognition*, *3*(1), 55–67.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/S1366728900000134>

</div>

<div id="ref-reetzke_2016" class="csl-entry">

Reetzke, R., Lam, B. P.-W., Xie, Z., Sheng, L., & Chandrasekaran, B.
(2016). Effect of simultaneous bilingualism on speech intelligibility
across different masker types, modalities, and signal-to-noise ratios in
school-age children. *PloS One*, *11*(12), 1–18.
<https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0168048>

</div>

<div id="ref-rogers_etal_2006" class="csl-entry">

Rogers, C. L., Lister, J. J., Febo, D. M., Besing, J. M., & Abrams, H.
B. (2006). Effects of bilingualism, noise, and reverberation on speech
perception by listeners with normal hearing. *Applied
Psycholinguistics*, *27*(3), 465–485.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/S014271640606036X>

</div>

<div id="ref-scharenborg2019listening" class="csl-entry">

Scharenborg, O., & Os, M. van. (2019). Why listening in background noise
is harder in a non-native language than in a native language: A review.
*Speech Communication*, *108*, 53–64.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.specom.2019.03.001>

</div>

<div id="ref-shi_2010" class="csl-entry">

Shi, L.-F. (2010). Perception of acoustically degraded sentences in
bilingual listeners who differ in age of English acquisition. *Journal
of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research*, *53*(4), 821–835.
<https://doi.org/10.1044/1092-4388(2010/09-0081)>

</div>

</div>
